#SQL Structed Query Language and MySQL

#SQL is a domain-specific query language(a language for the specification of procedures for the retrieval (and sometimes also modification) of information from a database) used in programming and designed for updating, deleting, and requesting information from databases.

Purpose: To query and operate database system.

In a distributed database system, a program often referred to as the database's "back end" runs constantly 
on a server, interpreting data files on the server as a standard relational database. Programs on client 
computers allow users to manipulate that data, using tables, columns, rows, and fields. To do this, client 
programs send SQL statements to the server. The server then processes these statements and returns result 
sets to the client program.

Differences in SQL and MySQL
--MYSQL available for free since it is open source, But SQL is not open source.

--MYSQL offers only updateable views, SQL offers indexed views which are much more powerful, performing 
wise.

--MYSQL doesn't support XML, Where as XML supports it.

--Auto tuning is not supported in MYQL, But can in SQL.

--User defined functions are not supported in MYSQL, But supported in SQL.

--Transaction support is very much limited in MYSQL, But extensively and fully offered in SQL.

--Stored procedures and full joins not offered in MYSQL, But offered in SQL.

To give a better idea of the differences in MySQL and SQL Server -MySQL is geared more toward selecting 
data so it can be displayed, updated and saved again. MySQL is weaker in the areas of inserting and 
deleting data. 

#MySQL
is an RDBMS(Relational Database Management System) that allows keeping the data that exists in a database 
organized. This RDBMS system is used with the combination of PHP and Apache Web Server, on top of a Linux 
distribution. MySQL uses the SQL language to query the database. Used to store, retrieve, modify and 
administrate a database using SQL.
MySQL is database software. It used "SQL" language to query the database.

Purpose: Allows data handling, storing, modifying, deleting in a tabular format.

#RDBMS
A relational database management system (RDBMS) is a collection of programs and capabilities that enable 
IT teams and others to create, update, administer and otherwise interact with a relational database. Most 
commercial RDBMSes use Structured Query Language (SQL) to access the database, although SQL was invented 
after the initial development of the relational model and is not necessary for its use.

The most basic RDBMS functions are related to create, read, update and delete operations, 
collectively known as CRUD. They form the foundation of a well-organized system that 
promotes consistent treatment of data.


#Relational database
A relational database is a set of formally described tables from which data can be accessed or 
reassembled in many different ways without having to reorganize the database tables. The standard user 
and application programming interface (API) of a relational database is the Structured Query Language 
(SQL). SQL statements are used both for interactive queries for information from a relational database 
and for gathering data for reports.

--Advantages
    The main advantages of relational databases are that they enable users to easily categorize and store 
    data that can later be queried and filtered to extract specific information for reports. Relational 
    databases are also easy to extend and aren't reliant on physical organization. After the original 
    database creation, a new data category can be added without all existing applications being modified.
    
   - Accurate: Data is stored just once, which eliminates data deduplication.
   - Flexible: Complex queries are easy for users to carry out.
   - Collaborative: Multiple users can access the same database.
   - Trusted: Relational database models are mature and well-understood.
   - Secure: Data in tables within relational database management systems (RDBMSes) can be limited to
     allow access by only particular users.
     
     
#RDBMS vs. DBMS
In general, databases store sets of data that can be queried for use in other applications. A database 
management system supports the development, administration and use of database platforms.

An RDBMS is a type of DBMS with a row-based table structure that connects related data elements and 
includes functions that maintain the security, accuracy, integrity and consistency of the data.   
     
     
     
     
